This is the ultimate Fortnite Chapter 6
Season 4 optimization guide. I've tested
these tweaks on multiple CPU and GPU
combos, and with several toprated
optimization guides already on the
channel, I can confidently say that
after watching this video, you will get
higher FPS, lower input delay, and a
faster feeling system overall. Begin by
opening Fortnite and going to settings.
If these aren't fully optimized, you're
throwing away free performance, and no
advanced tweak can recover the FPS
you're already losing by skipping this
step. Normally, I start from the top,
but this time we're going to take a look
at the new rendering mode first to
figure out which rendering mode is best
for you. With the season 4 update,
Fortnite has finally introduced a new
rendering mode called performance. It's
almost identical to the old performance
mode, which is now renamed to legacy
performance mode. But what exactly is
the difference? Visually, they are
almost exactly the same, but the new one
actually runs on DX12. But this doesn't
necessarily mean that the new
performance mode using DX12 is
automatically going to be better.
Remember, it literally came out
yesterday, so there are bound to be some
problems. In practice, the input delay
honestly feels exactly the same with
pretty much the same exact render
latencies. But let's take a look at the
FPS numbers. You'll notice that the new
performance mode on DX12 actually gets
slightly worse average FPS. And in the
1% lows, it's significantly lower. I
know it's still very high and I couldn't
actually notice the difference while I
tested it live on Twitch, but the
difference is still worth noting.
Additionally, the new performance mode
is a bit heavier in VRAM, RAM, and power
usage, which might not be issues for me,
but can be issues on lower-end or poorly
cooled systems. Nevertheless, this is
still a new mode, and there are still
serious bugs. The most annoying bug I've
noticed is that every time I load into a
game, I start at around 30 fps. Then, it
slowly creeps its way back up to
whatever frame limit I chose in my
settings. and it even happens in the
lobby. But overall, I do think the new
performance mode is a really good
option, especially on AMD GPUs, and
it'll only improve as time goes on. So,
in my opinion, try out the new
performance mode, but if the bugs bother
you or if your performance gets worse,
change back to legacy because that has
been the best choice for competitive
Fortnite for the past several years.
Now, let's go through every other
setting in the display settings from top
to bottom. Starting with window mode.
The first setting you'll see at the top
is window mode. Out of the three
options, full screen and windowed full
screen are both viable. They each have
their own benefits, and even pro players
are split on this, so I'd recommend
testing both out to see what runs better
on your system. Next is resolution. Just
make sure it matches your monitor's
resolution. And never lower this setting
to get more FPS. Instead, we will fix
that issue with the 3D resolution
setting in a second, which will give you
the same performance boost without
making your HUD look like a blurry mess.
Then turn VSYNC off. Turning it on does
prevent screen tearing, but will add a
lot of unnecessary input delay. Only
ever turn this on if you still have
screen tearing issues after finishing
this video. For frame rate limit, every
single Tier 1 Pro leaves it capped to
their monitor's refresh rate. So, if you
have a 240 Hz monitor, leave it at 240
FPS for more consistent performance and
better temperatures. As for the next
five graphics settings, they don't
impact performance at all. So, feel free
to customize them however you like so
your game looks exactly how you want it.
Scrolling down to graphics quality,
decreasing the 3D resolution can
significantly boost your FPS, and it
only works better the weaker your
graphics card. Just keep in mind that at
a certain point, this has absolutely no
effect on your performance, apart from
making elements harder to see. Every
other setting underneath should be set
to low, apart from view distance, where
the lowest I would go is medium, as all
it really does is render items from
further away. Next is meshes. Like any
tier 1 pro, I would stick with low
meshes for less screen clutter and
better performance. However, it does
come down to preference as I know some
players do like using high meshes. For
report performance stats, all it does is
send your stats to Epic Games, which
will slightly impact your game. So, if
you would rather have more FPS, turn it
off. And for the very last setting on
this page, Nvidia Reflex low latency. If
you're using an AMD or Intel GPU, you
can skip this part. This setting only
applies to Nvidia users. Normally,
without Reflex, your CPU cues up frames
for the GPU, so there's always one or
two ready to display on your monitor.
And that's great for smooth visuals in
single player games. But in esports
titles such as Fortnite, those cued
frames will always be slightly delayed.
With Nvidia Reflex turned on, that
render queue is minimized, so you're
always seeing the absolute newest frame,
resulting in lower latency. However, you
might lose a few FPS, so it's worth
toggling it on and off to see what feels
better for you. But having it on usually
works out for most people. But what
about reflex on plus boost? Because
Fortnite is a CPUbound game, your GPU
often isn't running at its boost clock
speeds. By enabling reflex boost, it
prevents your GPU from downclocking to
get even lower input delay. This can
increase your GPU temperature by up to 5
degrees, though, so just make sure you
have sufficient air flow and cooling.
And just like standard reflex, be sure
to test it for yourself. And for the
last Fortnite optimization, before
moving on to the essential Windows
tweaks, go to the game tab at the top of
the settings, scroll all the way down
until you see the replay section and
disable all the replay options to free
up resources for your system. However,
FPS means nothing if your ping sucks.
And this is where real-time network
optimizations come in. As an NA East
player, I used to get 40 ping on NA
Central. But when I turned on Exit Lag,
it dropped to eight. And even on my own
servers where I already had good ping,
exit lag rerouted me through optimized
paths and brought me all the way down to
one ping. With such insane results, it's
no surprise that even Peterbot uses
Exelag without being sponsored by them.
But how does it work? It works by
creating multiple optimized routes to
the game server in real time, then
automatically switching to the fastest
one. So, if you want lower ping like me,
you can try Exit Lag completely free.
And the best part is that it doesn't
need your credit card information. Just
head to the link in the description,
create an account, and your free trial
starts instantly. Once it's installed,
choose from over 2,000 supported games
and see what it does for your
connection. And if you like the free
trial, take advantage of their gamer
month limited time deal up to 72% off
their multiplayer plans. So, try Exelag
today with the link below. It might just
become your new favorite app. Now, it's
time for the essential Windows
optimizations that actually boost your
FPS. But before we make any changes to
your system, create a restore point.
It's a crucial step before making system
tweaks. And if anything goes wrong at
any point during this video, you can use
it to easily roll back changes. To
create a restore point, press the
Windows key, type create, and hit enter.
When the window pops up, click
configure, turn on system protection,
and drag the slider to allocate some
space for restore points. As a rule of
thumb, each one typically takes up
around 1 gigabyte. So, allocate a few
gigs so that you can make multiple as
you follow this guide. Once that's set,
click apply, then okay. Now, hit create
and give your restore point a
descriptive name so you never forget why
you made it. Once it's done, click close
and okay. Now that you created a restore
point, press your Windows key, type in
game mode, press enter, and enable it.
All it does is limit background
processes while gaming. Next, click on
graphics, change default graphics
settings, and enable optimizations for
windowed games. This will improve
performance in DX10 and 11 games like
Fortnite. But if you set it to full
screen earlier instead of windowed full
screen, this will not affect you at all.
If you see hardware accelerated GPU
scheduling in the same area, turn it on.
It lets your GPU manage its own memory
scheduling instead of fully relying on
the CPU, which can reduce latency and
free up CPU resources. That said,
there's a chance it'll cause stutters or
instability on some setups. So, turn it
back off if that happens. Next, we're
going to disable core isolation. It's
just a security feature that uses
virtualizationbased security,
essentially running a mini virtual
machine in the background, which reduces
gaming performance by around 5% on
average. There will never be a
performance benefit to leaving it on.
And as long as you have Windows Defender
or any sort of antivirus, you'll be
completely fine. So to disable it for
more performance, press the Windows key,
type in core, and press enter. Then
switch off memory integrity. In this
section of the video, we're going to
debloss for better performance. As you
may know, Windows installations come
extremely bloated with several useless
applications that do nothing but slow
down your computer. To fix this, we're
going to be using the latest version of
Chris Titus text debloat utility. And to
this day, I think this is probably the
best way to quickly debloat your
computer. To run the utility, press your
Windows key, type PowerShell, and run
PowerShell as administrator. Then just
type or copy and paste the first line
from the description and hit enter.
After a few seconds, you should see a
window like this pop up. Once it opens,
click on the tweaks tab and feel free to
hover over any of the tweaks to get a
detailed description of what they
actually do. But if you're on a desktop,
you can safely copy everything on the
left half of the screen. And for laptop
users, you can copy the right half. In
the advanced tweaks caution section, I'd
recommend checking off most of the
things here except remove Microsoft
Store apps since it removes a lot of
actually useful apps like snipping tool.
And don't turn on Adobe network block if
you don't want to make Adobe websites
completely unusable. For the set display
to performance option, skip it for now.
We're going to adjust those display
settings manually later in the video.
Anyways, once you're done here, click on
run tweaks. In a few moments, a
confirmation window will show up saying
the tweaks are finished and you can
close everything off. Moving on to the
power plan. We're going to spend a bit
of time on it because this alone can
make a real noticeable impact on both
latency and frame rate. To access the
power plans, press your Windows key,
type power, and hit enter to open up the
power plan settings. In here, we're
going to add the ultimate performance
power plan. It works best on mid to
high-end PCs, but even if you have a
budget one, I still recommend trying
this out because it's super simple and
can still give you better performance.
Initially, the ultimate plan won't show
up. So, to add it, open the command
prompt by pressing your Windows key,
typing cmd, and running the command
prompt as administrator. When the window
opens, paste or type the command from
the description, and press enter to add
the new power plan. Once that's done,
just reopen the power options, and you
should see the ultimate performance plan
under the additional plan section. Now,
just click on the circle to enable it,
and you should notice a positive change,
but if not, feel free to switch back to
balanced. Now, it's time for the
registry editor tweaks. These tweaks
alone gave me almost 25% better 1% lows.
So, do not skip these because they can
make a huge impact on your machine. So,
press your Windows key, type in regedit,
and open as administrator. For the first
tweak, highlight the text up here, and
replace it with this line from the
description. Then, press enter, and
you'll teleport to this folder. Then,
double click on scheduling category and
set that to high. It simply increases
the responsiveness of your PC. For the
longest time, I've been saying to set
GPU priority to 8 and set SFIO priority
to high, but according to recent
Microsoft documentation from July 14th,
those values are not yet used, so don't
worry about changing them. And the
priority value is overridden by setting
the scheduling category to high anyways,
so don't worry about that. Next, we're
going to change the Win32 priority
separation value. This controls how
Windows splits CPU resources between
foreground apps like Fortnite and
background tasks. Normally, Windows
tries to keep things balanced, but for
gaming, we want the CPU to focus as much
on the game as possible. So, this is
where this tweak comes in. To find it,
paste this line from the description
into the same spot we did last time and
hit enter. Once you're here, double
click Win32 priority separation. And I'd
recommend setting it to hexodimal 26.
However, if you find that it doesn't
work very well for you, there are also a
ton of other viable options depending on
your specific case. Now, we're going to
change the network throttling index
value to potentially help reduce network
latency, which is especially important
in Fortnite, where low ping is equally
as important as high FPS. To disable it,
copy and paste this text from the
description. If you don't see network
throttling index, that's completely fine
as long as you're in the right folder.
Just rightclick in this blank space,
click on new, then dword 32-bit value.
Name it network throttling index, and
make sure it's all capitalized
correctly. Double click your newly
created value and set it to hexodimal FF
ff FF FFF. That's eight Fs. Normally,
your PC would limit your game or other
multimedia apps to 90% of your internet
bandwidth. But by doing this, your game
is now able to use the full 100%. And
for the final regge tweak, system
responsiveness. It's in the same folder
we were just in. For the longest time,
I've said to set this to zero, but it's
actually not the best value. This value
defines the percent of CPU resources
that are given to background tasks. So
you always want this to be as low as
possible. But by setting this to zero,
it'll actually revert back to the
default value of 20 decimal, which means
Windows reserves 20% of CPU resources
for background tasks. That is a lot. But
by double clicking system responsiveness
and setting the value to 10 instead,
your PC now has access to more CPU
resources, resulting in better
performance. After doing so many CPU
optimizations, it's about time we get to
the GPU tweaks. While Fortnite is mostly
CPU intensive, optimizing your graphics
card is just as important, especially if
you're using a lower-end GPU or using
DX12. Let's start with the Nvidia
settings. AMD users, feel free to skip
to the next chapter of the video. If you
have an Nvidia graphics card, rightclick
your desktop and open the Nvidia control
panel. You can still follow these steps
using the Nvidia app because both the
control panel and app write to the same
config. But for the sake of the video,
we're going to stick to the control
panel. Some people say that these
settings don't affect performance, but
they can make a huge difference and only
takes a couple of minutes to change. So,
go to manage 3D settings at the top
left. We'll leave the first 17 settings
at their default values as they're
already well optimized. But for OpenGL
rendering GPU, change it from auto
select to your dedicated GPU. This one
won't directly affect Fortnite since it
doesn't use OpenGL, but it can help
reduce stuttering in other games or
software that do. Next, set power
management mode to prefer maximum
performance. Similarly to reflex boost,
this keeps your GPU running at full
speed instead of downclocking when under
light load, ensuring the best
performance possible, and of course,
it's safe. Nvidia lets you do this
because your GPU is designed to handle
it. Set preferred refresh rate to
highest available for obvious reasons.
Then increase shader cache size to 10
GB. With today's games becoming more and
more shader heavy, this has consistently
reduced stuttering for me and many
others. Going beyond 10 GB usually
doesn't help unless you're playing
literally hundreds of shader heavy AAA
titles. So 10 GB is plenty. Enable
texture filtering anotropic sample
optimization. In simple terms, this
helps your GPU handle textures more
efficiently, usually resulting in better
FPS. Set texture filtering quality to
high performance. This makes your GPU
prioritize speed and efficiency over
perfect textures. So the game might look
slightly worse, but you'll get smoother
gameplay. And me personally, I haven't
noticed a difference visually. And
finally, disable vertical sync. After
making these changes, restart Fortnite
and play a few matches to rebuild the
shader cache. And I'm 99% sure you'll
see a significant FPS boost from just
these few tweaks. If you're on an AMD
graphics card, do not skip this part
because these tweaks noticeably improved
my 1% lows and dropped my RAM and VRAM
usage by about 1 GB each. Start by
opening the AMD Adrenaline software.
Click the gear icon in the top right to
open settings. Then head over to the
preferences tab.
Next, click on the gaming tab at the
top. Then go to the graphics section.
Scroll down until you find texture
filtering quality and change it from
standard to performance. Leave surface
format optimization enabled. This can
improve performance in Fortnite and it
frees up a bit of VRAM. That said, it's
worth testing on your setup just in case
it performs better with it off. Finally,
we're going to turn off tessellation,
which Fortnite barely uses anyways. Set
tessellation mode to override
application settings. Then set maximum
tessellation level to off. And we're
done with the GPU optimizations. Now,
let's go through every Windows setting
to get that last bit of performance out
of your PC, as well as improving your
computer's responsiveness and privacy.
To open the Windows settings, press
Windows plus I. I'm on Windows 11, but
if you're using Windows 10, things might
look a little bit different, but the
steps are going to be almost identical.
Firstly, on the left side, click system,
then go to notifications. While
notifications themselves don't directly
hurt performance, the background
processes that manage them can. So,
unless you actually need notifications,
you can turn those off and enable do not
disturb. Under personalization, click on
dynamic lighting. This service manages
RGB lighting in the background and often
conflicts with other RGB software, so
turn off both toggles. Now go to apps,
select advanced app settings, and
disable share across devices. This
feature has caused high CPU usage bugs
in the past, and turning it off reduces
background activity and improves
security. While you're still in apps,
click on startup apps and disable
anything you don't need running every
time you boot your PC. Go to
accessibility, then click visual
effects. Disable transparency and
animation effects. You won't see these
effects in game, but they still use
resources in the background, and this is
especially noticeable on low-end
systems. Now, head over to privacy and
security. Feel free to disable
everything from general to activity
history. Under search permissions, I
recommend turning off everything except
safe search. All it does is make your
searches safer. Obviously, in searching
Windows, you can set find my files to
classic if you're on a super low-end PC.
It reduces background CPU and disk
usage, but for most people, the
performance gain is way too small to be
worth doing. To finish everything off,
go to Windows Update, open advanced
options, and turn off the top four
settings. This both helps performance
and keeps Windows from interrupting you
while you're in a ranked game. And
finally, click on delivery optimization
and disable allow downloads from other
devices. When this is on, Microsoft
might use your PC to share Windows
updates with other computers on the
internet. That uses bandwidth and poses
a small privacy risk, so it's best to
turn it off. Moving on to the advanced
system settings. Even though you don't
actually see these settings during
gameplay, they still take up resources
in the background, so I promise this is
worth your 30 seconds. Hit the Windows
key, search for advanced system
settings, and press enter. Under the
performance section, click settings.
Select adjust for best performance to
disable all the visual fluff. Then
scroll to the bottom and enable these
three specific options. This way, you
get the most performance boost without
making your desktop look like ass. Cuz
if you just leave it on performance, it
makes your computer look absolutely
terrible. This leads us to the BIOS
tweaks, starting with enabling XMPP,
Expo, or DOCP so your RAM can actually
run at its full speed. To check if you
actually need to do this, open Task
Manager by pressing control shift
escape. Click on performance, then
memory, and check your RAM speeds. If
you see that it matches what your RAM is
rated for, you either don't need to turn
on XMPP or you already have it on. But
if it's running slower than expected,
follow these steps. Firstly, ensure your
RAM supports XMP, Expo, or DOCP by
checking the specs online, on the
packaging, or in the manual. If it does,
open the BIOS, restart your PC, and
repeatedly press delete, F2, or escape,
depending on your motherboard
manufacturer. Now, look for the
XMP/expo/CP
option. It's usually on the main screen
or under a tweaker or overclocking tab.
Now, change it from disabled to XMPP1,
and your RAM is now able to run at its
advertised speed. While you're here, to
get the most out of your RAM, you can
enable high bandwidth support and low
latency support. there is a small risk
that it'll cause instability. So, if
you'd rather not go through the process
of testing for stability, then you're
not missing out on too much by not
enabling them. The second thing we're
going to do in the BIOS is make sure you
have resizable bar enabled. It lets your
CPU access all of your GPU's memory at
once instead of in small chunks. And by
turning it on, the worst thing that
could happen is there's no effect on
your PC. And in the best case, you'll
get higher and more consistent frames.
This setting could be literally anywhere
in your BIOS, so you might need to
search around, but once you find it,
just turn it on and leave it on. The
next thing we're going to do is enable
or disable SMT/hyperthreading,
depending on how many CPU cores you
have. Simultaneous multi-threading or
hyperthreading basically lets each
individual core in your CPU execute two
threads at the same time. To access the
setting, you're going to have to go into
your BIOS's advanced mode. It's likely
buried in your advanced CPU settings,
though this will vary across motherboard
models. For anyone like me who has less
than eight cores, enabling it will often
increase your FPS. But starting at eight
cores, the more cores you have, the less
effective enabling this will be. And
sometimes you might just want to have it
fully disabled, especially on CPUs with
very large core counts. And you're done.
If you found this video useful or not,
let me know down in the comments. And be
sure to follow my Twitch where I'll be
playing the new Fortnite season and
doing fun stuff like raiding your PCs
and viewer 1v ones.